- [Instructor] Once we've built an API definition file,
we can automatically generate interactive documentation
from the file using Swagger UI.
To get started, we just need to save our API definition
from Swagger Editor.
To do this, we click on the file option within the menu
and then click on Save as YAML.
This is going to open a dialog where we can then save
our API definition file.
In this case, we're going to save the file
within our course workspace directory on the desktop.
I'm going to go ahead and name the file hsports-api.yaml.
Once the file has downloaded, we can navigate
to the directory containing the file
and we're going to copy our API definition.
From there, we're going to navigate
into the swagger-ui directory,
where we find the Swagger installation.
In this directory, you'll see the dist directory.
Let's navigate into that directory
and then paste our API definition file.
Now if we hop up a directory,
we can copy dist and then we can paste dist
within the course workspace directory.
At this point, I'm going to go ahead and change the name
of that directory to api-docs.
Then there's one final change that we need to make
Inside the API docs directory,
you'll see the index.html file.
Within this file, if we open it in a text editor,
you're going to see that it points to an API definition.
So here we see that it's pointing
to the pet store API definition
that's hosted on Swagger's website.
We simply need to change this line
to point at our own API definition file
that sits within our API docs directory.
So just go ahead and change that to hsports-api.yaml
and then save the file and we can close it.
At this point, we just need to start our http server
to serve our API docs directory.
So I'm going to open this command line,
and within the command line
I can use the http-server command,
and then I point to the API docs directory to serve it,
and then I'll provide our local IP followed by the port.
In this case, it'll be 8081.
And if we issue that command, we see the http server
start up Swagger UI, and now we can navigate
to a browser and access our Swagger UI installation
on port 8081 on the local host.
And there we see our first API definition file
hosted within Swagger UI.
You'll notice that we get the interactive documentation
provided by Swagger UI
and we're able to see these descriptions
of our rest API operations,
and this is extremely valuable for any API client
looking to use our API implementation.